hey Eric Jameson here at Fisher
headquarters today we're going to talk
about our Watea line a freeride lineup
of skis got everything from hearts no
bumps freeze all the way over to your
waist deep powder days so we'll start
off with Watea 78 78 millimeters
underfoot wood core vertical sidewall
lightweight good solid construction this
is a good option for somebody is going
to spend a fair amount of time on hard
snow surfaces but it was also going to
jump into the woods get into some saw
snow ski some bumps and and mix it up a
bit
so probably about 70% hard snow 30%
softer snow and moving up to the Watea
84 here we've got an 84 millimeter waist
again wood core vertical sidewalls what
teen 84 is a good option for somebody
spending about 60% of the time on firmer
surfaces 40% of the time and softer snow
occasional powder day into the woods 84
millimeter waist has a a good amount of
float but the skis still also rips on
the hard pack this is one of my favorite
skis in our lineup kind of my all day
everyday ski for skiing on the East
Coast we move on to the Watea 94 there
we go at 94 millimeters underfoot so
significantly more float you get from
some of the other skis in the line and
now we move up and do what we call our
powder hull skis you see that tip right
there it's shaped like a boat hull what
that does is improves the floatation and
the directional stability of the ski and
softer snow so it really helps the tip
plane out of the snow and then to
further help that tip we've got to
modify the Swallowtail that Swallowtail
helps that tail sink deeper into the
snow so the powder hull gets a tip out
of the snow on the tail lets it sink a
little deeper so really great float ski
that's 94 millimeters underfoot and also
look back at that tail notched in the
tail for skins all of the skis in the
Watea line with the exception of the
twin tip 114 are notched in the tail so
really easy to put on skins these make
some great backcountry or
for touring skis the 94 here is a great
choice for an all-day everyday ski for
somebody living out west or eastern and
midwestern skier who's looking for a
little more flow on the soft days at 94
underfoot it floats but this thing still
also grips on the hearts now what a 294
moving up to our next powder all skied
whate'er 101 this is our big mountain
directional freeride ski here we're at a
hundred 1 underfoot so really a lot of
float in this model again at the powder
hull and the Swallowtail if you take a
look at that square tail shape what that
does is you've increased the effective
edge length but it's above the contact
points when you've got this ski on hard
snow the end up with a longer edge
surface and more stable ski but on soft
snow and tight trees and shoots that's
above the contact area so the back tail
of that ski is going to slide it's gonna
release pretty easily so really makes
for a good combination of Hearts no edge
grip but soft snow steering and their
performance and playfulness
that's a whate'er 101 and again all wood
core vertical sidewalls and also a
carbon fiber I use another Big Daddy in
the lineup the white 801 14 this is the
perfect ski for those details 114
millimeters underfoot it's a 146 up in
the shovel again got that powder hull
tip we actually want to design a Ward
from this boat for the powder haul and
that's from 94 101 and the 114 here
another design of the 114 that helps
this ski out and powder is we've got an
extended tip here so that the side cut
actually starts right about here so
we've elongated the tip that allows for
more flow and also doesn't doesn't make
for a ski that's kind of hooky in powder
a powder ski that side cut starts right
up at the contact point gets a little
bit hooky so by extending that flat spot
there it steers really well on the soft
snow here we've got a full twin so for
those switch landings out in the
backcountry
114 is a great ticket and also it's a
or profile tale now it's a 146 in the
shovel
that's only 128 and the tail it's a
little bit of a pintail so what that
does is it allows that tail the sink a
little bit deeper in the snow
and helps that powder how I really get
the front of the ski out of powder and
planes off really nicely and believe it
or not at 114 this thinks though rips a
pretty sweet turn on the hard pack and
the secret behind the edge grip and
performance on Harts now it's right
there it's a double eye beam
construction that's featured in the 114
the 101 94 84 that's what that IBM does
is it stiffens the ski up torsionally so
when it's on hard snow holds really well
but actually lightens the weight of the
ski kind of gives it metal performance
like two sheets of metal but it doesn't
have a weight to it so on that boot pack
and you're going to throw those things
over your shoulder it's a pretty
lightweight skis for as well as they ski
on hard snow and all that lightweight is
what they flew it even better than the
soft stuff so while Te'o 114 don't
forget about the powder haul I have even
construction and that's a white a oh I
know
so have fun out there on the slopes and
we hope to see you on a powder day